Production deployment guide for CI/CD (#265)
gruntwork-io/gruntwork-io.github.io: _posts/2020-02-06-how-to-configure-a-production-grade-ci-cd-setup-for-apps-and-infrastructure-code.adoc

---

> title: How to configure a production-grade CI/CD workflows for application and infrastructure code

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: How to configure a production-grade CI/CD workflow for application and infrastructure code
```

Author: Updated: 82f157308ccd071d298601eb3c1a63b59d879cba

> categories: Foundations

Reviewer: Perhaps "Automations and Workflows" instead? As per use case pages: https://github.com/gruntwork-io/team-product/blob/master/rfcs/initial-use-case-pages.md#automation-and-workflows

image: TODO
excerpt: Learn about CI/CD workflows for application and infrastructure code, including the differences between the two, different CI servers, threat models, and more.
tags: ["aws", "terraform", "cicd"]
cloud: ["aws"]
---
:page-type: guide
:page-layout: post

:toc:
:toc-placement!:

// GitHub specific settings. See https://gist.github.com/dcode/0cfbf2699a1fe9b46ff04c41721dda74 for details.
ifdef::env-github[]
:tip-caption: :bulb:
:note-caption: :information_source:
:important-caption: :heavy_exclamation_mark:
:caution-caption: :fire:
:warning-caption: :warning:
toc::[]
endif::[]

== Intro

> This guide is a comprehensive overview of how to design, configure, and implement a Continuous Integration and

Author: Hah you are right about it being an oxymoron. Fixed: 82f1573

Continuous Delivery pipeline for your application and infrastructure code.

=== What is Continuous Integration and Continuous Delivery?

Continuous Integration and Continuous Delivery (also widely known as CI/CD) are software development practices that

> involves developers merging their work together and deploying it to production on a regular basis (oftentimes as

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
involve developers merging their work together and deploying it to production on a regular basis (oftentimes as
```

Author: Fixed: 54b5aac311d78d27b35025469ebf47213e9a8b48

frequent as multiple times per day). The goal of a Continuous Integration process is to integrate the various feature

> work that the developers are individually doing often enough such that you can identify problems with the design earlier

Author: Rephrased to something slightly different but closer: "... integrate the features developed independently by engineers often enough ..."  54b5aac311d78d27b35025469ebf47213e9a8b48

in the process, allowing you to improve the design incrementally. Similarly, by deploying the software more frequently
to production, the Continuous Delivery process enables you to keep software packages small enough to reduce the risk and
impact of each deployment.

While CI/CD for application code is well understood in the software industry, CI/CD for infrastructure code is a

> relatively new concept. This guide focuses on providing an overview of the background info, design, and implementation

Author: Good idea: 54b5aac311d78d27b35025469ebf47213e9a8b48

of a production-ready CI/CD pipeline for infrastructure code.

> === What you'll learn in this guide

Reviewer: Might want to mention this guide will show you how to set up a secure CI / CD pipeline using your favorite CI / CD platform (e.g., Jenkins, Circle, GitLab, etc)

Author: Good idea. Added to top paragraph: 54b5aac311d78d27b35025469ebf47213e9a8b48

This guide consists of four main sections:

<<core_concepts>>::

>   An overview of the core concepts you need to understand what a typical CI/CD pipeline entails for appliction and

Author: Good catch. Reworded this section since focus of guide is infra code: 54b5aac311d78d27b35025469ebf47213e9a8b48

  infrastructure code, including a sample workflow, infrastructure to support CI/CD, and threat models to consider to
  protect your infrastructure.

<<production_grade_design>>::
  An overview of how to configure a secure, scalable, and robust CI/CD workflow that you can rely on for your
  production application and infrastructure code. To get a sense of what production-grade means, check out
  link:/guides/foundations/how-to-use-gruntwork-infrastructure-as-code-library#production_grade_infra_checklist[The production-grade infrastructure checklist].

<<deployment_walkthrough>>::
  A step-by-step guide to deploying a production-grade CI/CD pipeline in AWS using code from the Gruntwork
  Infrastructure as Code Library.

<<next_steps>>::
  What to do once you've got your CI/CD pipeline set up.

=== What this guide will not cover

> CI/CD for infrastructure code is a large topic and a single guide can not cover everything there is to the topic. As

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
CI/CD for infrastructure code is a large topic and a single guide cannot cover everything there is to the topic. As
```

such there are several items that this guide will not cover, including:

A pipeline for setting up new environments::
  This guide will focus on a CI/CD workflow for making changes to infrastructure in an environment that is already set
  up. In other words, the design and implementation of the pipeline covered in this guide intentionally does not solve
  the use case of infrastructure code for setting up an environment from scratch. Setting up new environments typically
  require complex deployment orders and permissions modeling that complicate the task. This makes it hard to automate in
  a reasonable fashion that still respects the threat model we cover here.

> Automated testing and feature toggling strategies for infrastructure code::

Reviewer: Consider cross-linking to https://blog.gruntwork.io/new-talk-automated-testing-for-terraform-docker-packer-kubernetes-and-more-cba312171aa6 and https://www.ybrikman.com/writing/2016/02/14/agility-requires-safety/ for these topics

Author: Good idea. Done: 869564a19431af6a42c7c054224816e773add50f

  An important factor of CI/CD pipelines is the existence of automated testing and feature toggles. Automated tests give
  you the confidence in the code before it is deployed to production. Similarly, feature toggles allow you to partially
  integrate and deploy code for a feature without enabling it. By doing so, you are able to continuously integrate
  lareger new developments over time. This guide will briefly introduce automated testing and feature toggles for
  infrastructure code, but will not do a deep dive on the subject.

[[core_concepts]]
== Core Concepts

[[why_is_it_important_to_have_cicd]]

> === Why is it important to have CI/CD?

Author: I love this too! I can't take any credit for this since this was largely taken verbatim from Jim's excellent post https://blog.ycombinator.com/agility-requires-safety/#part1

.Components of the International Space Station
image::/assets/img/guides/infrastructure-cicd-pipeline/iss-components.png[]

To understand the benefits of CI/CD, it is worth exploring the opposite: _late integration and late delivery (LI/LD)_.

> We will explain LI/LD using a thought experiment about building the International Space Station (ISS).

Reviewer 3: I'd move this paragraph above the diagram, below the "Why is it important" heading.

Author: Roger. Done: c92885e41210ec512b6bada8b0f94f299bf71ca6

different country, with a central team responsible for managing how to organize the development. In LI/LD,
you would organize the development by coming up with a design for all the components up front and then have each team go
off and work on their component in _total isolation_. There is complete trust in the design and the teams such that
there is no need to check in and integrate the components along the way. When all the teams are done, each team launches
the component into space and then put all the components together at the same time in space, _for the first time_.

It isn't hard to imagine that this could be disastrous: one team would think the other team was responsible for wiring
while that team thought everything would be wireless; all the teams would use the metric system except one; everyone cut
toilets from the scope thinking some other team is sure to include it. Finding all of this out once everything has
already been built and is floating in outer space means that fixing the problems will be very difficule and expensive.

.Many long living branches merging at the same time have a higher chance of having conflicts.

> image::/assets/img/guides/infrastructure-cicd-pipeline/feature-branch-merge-conflict.png[]

Reviewer 3: This is a neat diagram, and illustrates the point well, but all the unlabeled lines and branch concepts might not make sense to the reader yet. Maybe talk more about what the branches are in the caption.

Author: Moved this down below the paragraph about comparisons with software development, and updated the caption: c92885e41210ec512b6bada8b0f94f299bf71ca6

minute moments before release. Oftentimes the integration process is very expensive and takes days or weeks fixing merge
conflicts, tracking down subtle bugs, and trying to stabilize release branches.

In contrast, the Continuous Integration and Continuous Delivery model of development promotes more cross team
communication and integration work as development progresses. Going back to the ISS thought experiment, a CI/CD style of
building the ISS would work by coming up with a design up front, but instead of each team working in isolation there
would be regular checkpoints throughout the process where the teams come together to try to test and integrate all the
components, and update the design if there are problems. As components are completed and integration tests validate the
design, they are launched into space and assembled incrementally as new components arrive.

Instead of integrating at the last moment, CI/CD encourages development teams to integrate their work together on a
regular basis, with smaller packages of development. This exposes problems with the design earlier in the process and
ensures that there is ample time to improve the design.

> 

Author: I like that! Updated: 4855d62bd71c20dca45f415630fce430f64ef754

[[trunk_based_development_model]]
=== Trunk-based development model

.Trunk branch with a continuous stream of commits.

> image::/assets/img/guides/infrastructure-cicd-pipeline/trunk.png[]

Reviewer 3: I'd expect to see feature branches and releases too!

CI/CD workflows for application code is reasonably well understood in the DevOps industry, so you'll probably be
familiar with parts of it.

For the purposes of going through this workflow, we will assume the following:

- The application code lives in version control.
- We are using a trunk-based development model.
- The application has already been in development for sometime and there is a version of it in production.

The following list covers the steps of a typical CI/CD workflow for application code. You can refer to the section
https://blog.gruntwork.io/how-to-use-terraform-as-a-team-251bc1104973#1bff[A workflow for deploying application code]
from our blog post **How to use Terraform as a team** for more details.

Clone copy of source code and create a new branch::
  Since the code lives in version control, you want to ensure that a version of the code exists locally so that you can
  start to make changes. As such typically the first step in making changes to the code base is to make a local clone of
  the repository. It is also important to start by making a new branch of the code so that it can be pushed back to the

>   repository without worrying about breaking the main line of code (trunk) that everyone is working off of.

Author: Completely revamped this section: cc17835

Run the code locally::
  Once you have a local copy, typically it is a good practice to sanity check the local copy before making any changes
  to it. You want to ensure that you are starting from a clean slate to avoid conflicting an existing bug that breaks
  the code with something that you introduced during development. If any issues have slipped through the cracks and were

>   merged to master, you want to know those before starting on your implementation.

Author: Completely revamped this section: cc17835

Make code changes::
  Now that you have a working local copy, you can start to make changes to the code. This process is done iteratively,
  while checking for validity of the changes along the way with manual or automated testing. Since all the testing is
  local, the feedback cycle for development should be short. That is, you should be getting immediate feedback whether
  or not the code changes work as you iterate.

Submit changes for review::
  Once the code implementation is done and the testing passes, the next step is to submit it for review. Not everything
  can be checked through automated testing (e.g general code design and readability, or potential performance issues on
  larger data sets), and since the cost of broken code making it into trunk is high in continuous integration (as it can

>   stop development for the entire team), most workflows include a code review process to minimize the chances of

Author: Completely revamped this section: cc17835

  code, and restart the services. It is probably going to be much easier for the developer to rely on the process to
  make these changes as a lot of the tedious steps (such as building the code) is automated. On the other hand, with
  infrastructure code, you can easily make changes to the infrastructure through the UI. You can add, modify, or delete
  infrastructure with a few clicks in the AWS UI. The problem with out-of-band changes is that it cause configuration
  drift and leads to complicated bugs.

- *There is only one environment for the code*. Unlike with application code where you can easily have many copies of the
  code running at the same time, having duplicate environments of infrastructure code is very expensive. It is expensive
  as is having additional copies of your infrastructure for dev, stage, and prod, imagine having three copies of that
  triplet for infrastructure (e.g `infra-dev-dev`, `infra-dev-stage`, `infra-dev-prod` and so on). This not only makes
  testing the infrastructure code hard, but also limits branching strategies: you don't want any long lived branches,

>   and you don't want to deploy any infrastructure from feature branches to avoid state conflicts.

Author: Completely revamped this section: cc17835

modules::
  This repository should contain reusable infrastructure code to deploy common components of your infrastructure. Think
  of this repo as the "blueprints" that define the way your company configures infrastructure. For example, you might
  define an infrastructure module for deploying RDS databases.

live::
  This repository should contain the live configuration of your infrastructure for each of your environments. If
  `modules` contain "blueprints" then this repo contain the "houses" that were built using the "blueprints." For
  example, you might define an environment that contains multiple RDS databases, each configured with different
  parameter options (e.g name, server size, disk configuration, etc).

Since the nature of the release artifacts for the two repositories are different, naturally the CI/CD pipeline for the
repositories will also be different.

For `modules`, release artifacts will be versioned immutable snapshots of the code that you can consume in the `live`
configuration. The versioned artifacts ensure that you get a known configuration that won't change overtime (unless you

> request a different version). This helps facilitate consistent roll out of the particular infrastructure component

Author: Completely revamped this section: cc17835

across multiple environments.

> In contrast, for `live`, there is typically no release artifact. Instead, you would apply the code to the cloud to mark

Author: This makes sense. I was consciously trying to avoid repeating myself often, but when the writing was stretched across multiple days, naturally regress to the habit words.

a "release." Unlike with `modules`, the `live` code is a reflection of the actual infrastructure that is deployed. As

> such, it is important that the code is regularly applied so that it closely matches reality. We call this _The Golden

Author: Completely revamped this section: cc17835

  out-of-bound changes, your infrastructure code will constantly need to make large amounts of changes to resolve the
  configuration drift. This not only void many of the benefits of managing your infrastructure as code (e.g
  reproducibility), it can also be a source of distrust in the code base. Note that the flip side is true as well: you
  want to ensure that the code is continuously applied so that the code doesn't move too far ahead of the existing
  infrastructure.

"... a 1:1 representation ..."::
  Keeping track of the infrastructure that has been deployed is a critical part of Site Reliability Engineering. If you
  are not aware of all the environments that have been deployed, it is not only hard to make sense of any of the
  monitoring alarms and metrics, it can also be a source of frustration when you need to debug an issue. Ensuring that
  all the configuration for the environments are captured as code and live in your `live` repository provides an easy
  and obvious way to know what has been deployed and the exact configuration in which the deployment happened. This not

>   only means avoiding out-of-bound changes, but also avoiding tooling where the configurations live outside the live

Author: Ah that makes sense!

  You should only deploy your infrastructure from a single branch. This relates to the challenge of being able to only
  have a single environment for the code. Since you can't have multiple deployed environments of the code, it becomes
  hard to manage the shared infrastructure state across multiple copies of the code. This is most obvious with
  Terraform and it's state tracking. Given the cost of spinning up multiple copies of your entire infrastructure, you
  are typically forced to only maintain a single environment for your infrastructure code that everyone shares. This
  means that applying the infrastructure from separate branches is the same as making out-of-band changes, because the
  view is not unified. That is, terraform can only get the full view of the infrastructure if it merges all the changes
  from the active branch together. In this fragmented view, there is a high likelihood that applying the infrastructure
  in one branch can undo (as in, delete the infrastructure) the work of another branch because the configuration doesn't
  include it. To avoid this, you need to have a single source of truth that is consistent. In trunk-based development,

>   that is the `master` branch.

Author: > Isn't it more accurate to say that you should only deploy your infrastructure from a tagged release? That is, all releases are cut after merging to the master branch, and you can run any number of environments using any number of releases.

I have to think through this again. FWIW I got this from https://blog.gruntwork.io/how-to-use-terraform-as-a-team-251bc1104973 (search "The golden rule"), and the section after describes the problem with branching.

That said, the more I think about it, the more I am beginning to realize that it might still make sense to only deploy from releases, even if that means releases are almost every commit.

---

> But there are multiple environments ... This is where I get lost.

I probably need a dedicated section for these points. Let me think about how best to describe this. I agree that it is very confusing, primarily because terms are overloaded (`environment`), and also because it is meta (`dev-dev` wtf!?).

But the gist is that you have to look at the infrastructure live code in its entirety, and consider what it means to have a `dev` environment for the live code in its entirety. The easiest way to see this is when you consider changes such as adding a completely new account. E.g you have a need for a `qa` account that is dedicated to your QA team. What would it mean to have a `dev` environment of that? What about when we are ready to deploy that? What would a release mean then? And should that release be different from what is already on the "prod" environment?

Slight detour: why would you even want a `dev` environment to test this in the first place? One possible failure mode is if you were hooking up VPC peering between the shared account `mgmt` VPC and `qa` environment, and you accidentally picked an overlapping VPC CIDR block for `qa` with `prod`, such that all your routes to `prod` broke and you lost the ability to VPN into `prod`.

The point I'm trying to make here (and in [the paragraph highlighted here](https://github.com/gruntwork-io/gruntwork-io.github.io/pull/265/files#r382259930)) is that in order to have a true dev environment for the live code, you need a complete replica of your entire AWS organization, where you can run apply on without breaking anything existing, but you can't have that.

>   that is the `master` branch.

Author: Completely revamped this section: cc17835

> With these two repository structures in mind, let's take a look at what the CI/CD workflow looks like for each.

Author: Completely revamped this section: cc17835

    1. Do a dry run (`terraform plan`) from the updated trunk.
    1. Notify that a deployment is scheduled and a plan is available for review.
    1. Wait for manual approval.
    1. Deploy the code only after it has been reviewed for correctness.

In summary, here are the key differences with live infrastructure configurations and the other two kinds of code we have
discussed:

- There is almost no form of automated testing you can implement in the predeployment stage. The only thing you can do
  is perform a dry run and review the plan.

- Similarly, there is no alternative environment where you can test the code manually during development; not even a
  sandbox environment.

- There are no release artifacts or tag with the live code. Everything is deployed immediately after reaching trunk.

Now that we have an idea of what CI/CD pipelines look like, let's take a step back and define a threat model for CI/CD.
This threat model will help us ensure that we implement the necessary security controls in these CI/CD pipelines so that
we cover the common types of attack vectors for this type of workflow.

[[threat_model_of_cicd]]
=== Threat model of CI/CD

> To implement a CI/CD pipeline for infrastructure code, it is required that the ultimate entity or system running the

Reviewer: The article is on CI / CD in general, but this first sentence focuses on infra code. Might want to compare app and infra code here side by side again. Also shows the far more limited permissions necessary to deploy an app.

Author: Updated bc14490

what attacks are __not__ considered. The goal of the threat model is to be realistic about the threats that are
addressable with the tools available. By explicitly focusing attention on more likely and realistic threats, we can
avoid overengineering and compromising the usability of the solution against threats that are unlikely to exist (e.g
a 5 person startup with 100 end users is unlikely to be the subject of a targeted attack by a government agency).

In this design, the following threat assumptions are made:

- Attackers' goals are to gain access to an environment that they do not already have access to. Access to an
  environment includes but is not limited to:
    - The ability to read secrets that grant access to potentially sensitive data (e.g the database in prod
      environment).
    - Full access over all resources to cause damage to the business (e.g ability to delete the database and all its
      backups in prod).

- Attackers can originate from both external and internal sources (in relation to the organization).
- External attacks are limited to those that can get full access to a CI environment, but not the underlying source

>   code. Note that __any__ CI/CD solution can likely be compromised if an attacker has access to your source code.

Reviewer: Consider mentioning ways to protect your source code: e.g., protected branches, enforce MFA for your VCS, vulnerability scanning, etc.

Author: I wanted to leave mitigations for the production design, and wanted to focus on the threat model itself here. Otherwise, this section can get long with commentary.

- Internal attackers are limited to those with restricted access to the environments. This means that the threat model
  does not consider attackers with enough privileges to already have access to the deploy target accounts (e.g an
  internal ops admin with full access to the prod environment). However, an internal attacker with permissions in the
  dev environment trying to elevate their access to the prod environment is considered.
- Similarly, internal attackers are limited to those with restricted access in the CI environment and git repository. A
  threat where the internal attackers can bypass admin approval in a CI pipeline or can force push deployment branches
  is not considered.
- Internal attackers can have (limited) access to the CI environment and the underlying code of the infrastructure (e.g
  the git repository).

With this threat model in mind, let's take a look at the different CI/CD platforms.

[[cicd_platforms]]

> === CI/CD platforms

Reviewer 3: This is a great section! Love the practical advice and tradeoffs.

Over the years as practices for CI/CD for application code developed many platforms emerged to support CI/CD workflows
triggered from source control. Here we will list out a few of the major CI/CD platforms that exist to support these
workflows. Note that this isn't an exhaustive list, or an endorsement of the platforms that are listed here. The goal of
this section is to give a few examples of existing platforms and solutions, and cover the trade offs that you should
consider when selecting a platform to implement your workflow on. The production grade design that we cover in the guide
is compatible with almost any generic CI/CD platform that you select, but is an alternative to the specialized platforms
for infrastructure code.

In general, CI/CD platforms fit one of two categories: self-hosted or Saas. Self-hosted CI/CD platforms are designed as
infrastructure that you run in your data center and cloud for managing the infrastructure in your account, while Saas

> CI/CD platforms are hosted by the vendor that provides the platform. In most cases, Saas platforms are preferred to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
CI/CD platforms are hosted by the vendor that provides the platform. In most cases, SaaS platforms are preferred to
```

https://jenkins.io/[Jenkins] (self-hosted, generic)::
  One of the oldest CI/CD platforms, with its history going as far back as 2005 (when it was previously called
  _Hudson_). Jenkins is a popular and generic platform that can be configured to support almost any kind of CI/CD, with
  a wide range of plugins that enhance the experience. However, given the role that it plays in organizations, combined
  with its nature of being a popular, open source platform, it is the target of frequent attacks and vulnerabilities.
  Most vulnerabilities are mitigated by locking down the platform so that it is only internally accessible within a
  corporate network over VPN, as well as by keeping the server frequently patched. This does mean that you shouldn't
  expose the server externally to implement webhook based workflows, but rather rely on polling to detect changes.
  Jenkins also provides a wide range of fine-grained permissions in its user model that allows you to lock down the
  actions that your internal users can take.

https://circleci.com/[CircleCI] (Saas, generic)::
  CircleCI is a generic Saas CI/CD platform that is more optimized for application based CI/CD workflows than

>   infrastructure CI/CD, although it can be configured to implement infrastructure CI/CD workflows. The strength of

Author: Added some clarification on this: abbea1f

  CircleCI lies in the simplicity of its infrastructure. Being a fully managed Saas platform with first class support
  for a wide range of platforms, it is fairly easy to get up and running on the platform in a matter of minutes.
  However, the downside is that you must be comfortable with using a Saas platform for your CI/CD workflows and having
  it hold your secrets that provide access to your infrastructure. Note that CircleCI employs a respectable security

>   model, having passed numerous compliance audits including FedRamp. They provide a wide variety of features to mitigate

Author: Ah that makes sense

  At its core, the platform will automatically run `terraform plan` on commits and annotate any open Pull Requests with
  the `plan` output. This `plan` is stored in plan file format so that when upon merge, the exact plan is applied using
  `terraform apply`. Note that Atlantis is optimized for this single workflow. That is, it cannot be made to implement
  other workflows, such as building images or running infrastructure tests using terratest. Being a self-hosted
  platform, you can keep your credentials internal to your data center and lock down server level access. However,
  Atlantis requires a public facing endpoint to be available so that it can listen on webhooks from the major VCS
  platforms (GitHub/GitLab/Bitbucket/Azure DevOps). This means that you are relying on the security model of the
  Atlantis platform to ensure that it doesn't accidentally run infrastructure code from unwanted sources with the
  credentials of the platform. To prevent unwanted deployments, you will want to ensure that you are following
  https://www.runatlantis.io/docs/security.html#mitigations[all the security best practices] of the platform.

> https://www.hashicorp.com/products/terraform/[Terraform Enterprise and Terraform Cloud] (self-hosted and Saas, specialized)::

Reviewer: Mention somewhere that due to the limitations of Atlantis, TFC, and TFE, they can't be used as part of the secure CI / CD setup in this guide. 

Also, consider for each platform listing some of the trade-offs from: https://github.com/gruntwork-io/team-product/blob/master/prds/minimal-terraform-pipeline.md#why-build-it. In particular, whether it supports approval flows, commit triggers, manual triggers, secure permissions handling, etc.

In fact, maybe the way to simplify this section is to have a table. The columns are each platform and the rows are the various requirements. We can spell out what we mean by each requirement before the table and then present the summary in a simple to scan format that runs less risk of being "judgmental" of the platforms? And then we can say that the CI / CD platform we recommend for app and infra code should meet requirements A, B, and C, which you can see are met by these platforms but not these other ones.

  Terraform) that are optimized for Terraform workflows. Both services provide a web UI for remotely running `terraform
  plan` and `terraform apply`, and can be integrated with VCS platforms to implement CI/CD workflows that remotely run
  `terraform` in reaction to git. Additionally, Terraform Enterprise in particular provides the ability to manage
  deployment policies and permissions as code. Note that Terraform Cloud and Enterprise are both optimized for running
  `terraform`. That is, they do not support the use of external binaries such as `terragrunt` or `docker`, even when
  called from within `terraform` using a `local-exec` provisioner or external data source. In terms of the threat model,
  Terraform Cloud and Enterprise both implement respectable security practices, including end to end encryption backed
  by HashiCorp Vault, and you have the option to run in your own data center with Terraform Enterprise to lock it down.
  Note that Terraform Enterprise relies on API based integrations with the VCS platforms instead of webhooks, so it is
  not necessary to have a publicly facing service when running in self-hosted mode.

> 

Author: I think it will be similar to gitlab, so I'll keep it out for now.

[[production_grade_design]]
== Production-grade design

With all the core concepts out of the way, let's now discuss how to configure a production-grade CI/CD workflow for
infrastructure code, using a platform that looks something like this:

.Architecture of platform for running Terraform/Terragrunt CI/CD workflows.
image::/assets/img/guides/infrastructure-cicd-pipeline/tftg-pipeline-architecture.png[]

> .Sequence diagram of running Terraform/Terragrunt CI/CD workflows.

Reviewer: Might want to save this sequence diagram until later. Otherwise, two large, complicated images in a row can be a lot of info to take in.

Reviewer 3: Agreed. The architecture diagram followed immediately by the sequence diagram is intense.

Author: Moved 6a706196717b2ebced13ed710010ed0974ed9353

image::/assets/img/guides/infrastructure-cicd-pipeline/tftg-pipeline-sequence-diagram.png[]

[[use_generic_cicd_platforms_as_a_workflow_engine_but_run_infrastructure_deployments_from_within_your_account]]
=== Use generic CI/CD platforms as a workflow engine but run infrastructure deployments from within your account

As we covered in the <<cicd_platforms>> section of the Core Concepts, all CI/CD platforms support some form of
integration with VCS repositories. Additionally, CI/CD platforms are optimized for implementing workflows and pipelines
that react to VCS activities. They all support a way to start executing a pipeline on commits, approval steps in the
pipeline, and a way to report back to the VCS repository by annotating commits with status of a pipeline execution.
With the abundance of CI/CD platforms out there, you are bound to find one that suits your needs. It doesn't matter
which one you use, but be sure to choose one that has enough support for your application code so that you can use the
same platform for both application and infrastructure CI/CD workflows. In addition, we recommend selecting a Saas

> based CI/CD platform to avoid the overhead of managing additional infrastructure for the VCS integration and workflow

Reviewer: I think I'd frame these two paragraphs slightly differently:

1. Use any generic CI / CD server you wish.
1. But don't give that CI / CD server (admin) permissions to deploy arbitrary infra. CI / CD servers aren't secure enough, and you don't want a server that is used for executing arbitrary code and regularly used (and written to) by your entire dev team to have admin permissions. 
1. Instead, give permissions to something within your AWS account that cannot be accessed by anyone but a few admins plus a limited trigger we'll define below. Our concrete implementation is a Fargate-based Task that can only be triggered in limited ways by a Lambda function. Note: I'm not sure even TFE fits this description as you typically give your whole team access to it.
1. You then trigger your locked-down system from the CI server and stream the logs. If anyone gets access to your CI server, they can at most kick off builds on existing code, but they don't get arbitrary admin access.

Author: Revamped: 427a56bc1a9eb400331fdb34cf82e44a9d6aabcb

execution.

However, instead of relying on the CI/CD platform to run infrastructure deployments (e.g calling `terraform apply`), use
a specialized self-hosted deployment platform for running your infrastructure deployments. This can be Terraform
Enterprise if you are only using `terraform`, or Gruntwork's ECS Deploy Runner stack for a more general purpose
platform. In order to support arbitrary infrastructure deployments, it will be inevitable that the system running your

> deployments will have de factor admin status to the environments that you are deploying into. As such, it is important

Reviewer: ```suggestion
deployments will have de facto admin status to the environments that you are deploying into. As such, it is important
```

that these systems are locked down. You do not want any third party publicly facing system to hold powerful credentials
to your cloud environments.

This design implements separates out the concerns so that we take full advantage of the strengths of each platform,
while covering the weaknesses: relying on the CI/CD platforms to manage the workflow/pipline, but have it trigger
infrastructure deployments on self-hosted systems that are more locked down. In this model, the CI/CD platforms only
need enough permissions to trigger a deployment, but not necessarily all the permissions required for running a
deployment. Instead, you can have a system that is closed off in your isolated network hold the credentials
necessary to actually run the deployment.

[[use_serverless_platforms_for_infrastructure_deployments]]

> === Use serverless platforms for infrastructure deployments

Reviewer: I don't think serverless is essential here. The important part is that it's elastic enough to handle your needs and thoroughly locked down. E.g., In the future, we should probably allow our CI / CD Fargate task to instead run on K8S (e.g., in an isolated namespace).

Author: Replaced with commentary on deploy server options, comparing ECS Deploy Runner with TFE: 427a56bc1a9eb400331fdb34cf82e44a9d6aabcb

For running infrastructure deployments, choose a system that makes use of serverless platforms. For example, Gruntwork's
ECS Deploy Runner utilizes ECS Fargate to run the infrastructure code, with AWS Lambda as a frontend to provide a
callable function (driven by the AWS SDK and authorization managed by IAM). By utilizing Fargate and AWS Lambda, we have
a purely serverless architecture where no infrastructure needs to be managed, and IAM credentials are short lived. This
not only helps reduce the overhead of running the system, but it also helps reduce the attack surface (e.g you don't
have to worry about a permanent, externally available server that needs to be constantly patched).

[[use_a_vpc_to_lock_down_infrastructure_deployer]]
=== Use a VPC to lock down infrastructure deployer

Run your infrastructure deployment workloads in a https://aws.amazon.com/vpc/[Virtual Private Cloud (VPC)] to isolate
the workloads in a restricted network topology (see link:/guides/networking/how-to-deploy-production-grade-vpc-aws[How
to deploy a production-grade VPC on AWS] for more information on VPCs). Configure to run all workloads in private

> subnets that are not publicly accessible.

Reviewer: Block all inbound Internet access and consider blocking all outbound access except for the minimum required (e.g,. allow access to AWS APIs).

Author: Updated: 427a56bc1a9eb400331fdb34cf82e44a9d6aabcb

  function can be restricted to only allow references to repositories that matches a predefined regular expression.
  Terraform Enterprise exposes similar configuration parameters to restrict what deployments can be triggered. This
  prevents attackers from creating an open source repo with malicious code that they subsequently deploy by pointing the
  deploy runner to it.

Restricted refs for `apply`::
  Since many CI systems depend on the pipeline being managed as code in the same repository, internal attackers can
  easily circumvent approval flows by modifying the CI configuration on a test branch. This means that potential
  attackers can run an `apply` to destroy the environment or open backdoors by running infrastructure code from test
  branches without having the code approved. To mitigate this, the Lambda function allows specifying a list of git refs
  (branches, tags, etc) as the source of `apply` and `apply-all`. If you limit the source of `apply` to only protected
  branches (see below), it prevents attackers from having the ability to run `apply` unless it has been reviewed.

> CI server does not need access to the source code::

Reviewer: Big +1 on this! In fact... We should make sure we set up our Ref Arch and our own dogfood Ref Arch exactly this way: no write access to infra live / infra modules. This does mean rethinking how we do CI / CD for apps (which today _does_ write to infra-live).

Author: There is one problem with this that I have not yet quite figured out, which is that in order to use `git-updated-folders`, you need access to the source code.

I think in the future, we should push this feature down to the deploy script so that we can achieve this promise, but not quite sure yet what that interface looks like. Perhaps something like `--run-on-changed-files` and `--terragrunt-changes`, `--terraform-changes`, `--file-changes FILE_REGEX`?

Reviewer: > There is one problem with this that I have not yet quite figured out, which is that in order to use git-updated-folders, you need access to the source code.

Read access is enough though, right? My point is that the CI server shouldn't need write access.

<<lock_down_vcs_systems>>::
  As mentioned in the previous section, it is important that you implement various controls on the VCS repositories.
  Once you implement a CI/CD pipeline, access to source code translates to access to your infrastructure environments,
  so you will want to reflect the same kind of security controls you implement on your environments in your VCS
  repositories.

Avoid logging secrets::
  Our threat model assumes that attackers can get access to the CI servers, which means they will have access to the
  deployment logs. This will include detailed outputs from a `terraform plan` or `apply`. While it is impossible to
  prevent terraform from leaking secrets into the state, it is possible to avoid terraform from logging sensitive
  information. Make use of pgp encryption functions or encrypted environment variables / config files (in the case of
  service deployments) to ensure sensitive data does not show up in the plan output. Additionally, tag sensitive outputs
  with the `sensitive` keyword so that terraform will mask the outputs.

[[deployment_walkthrough]]
== Deployment walkthrough

> Let’s now walk through the step-by-step process of how to create a production-grade CI/CD pipeline for your

Reviewer: This should be defined explicitly as a standalone item in the production design section.

Author: That was what the `serverless` section was about. Otherwise, there really is no difference between this system and TFE, so I couldn't flat out say no TFE.

Let me see if I can reframe it better...

Author: See 427a56bc1a9eb400331fdb34cf82e44a9d6aabcb for reframe

> Let’s now walk through the step-by-step process of how to create a production-grade CI/CD pipeline for your

Reviewer: Oh, I didn't know about this! We should add it to our Ref Arch everywhere!

> Let’s now walk through the step-by-step process of how to create a production-grade CI/CD pipeline for your

Reviewer: Says "submit a pull request" twice

> Let’s now walk through the step-by-step process of how to create a production-grade CI/CD pipeline for your

Reviewer: This is a total nice to have, and feel free to push back if it's way too time consuming, but is it possible to record a `.gif` of some sort showing the CI / CD process? Or maybe a few screenshots? That is, change code -> PR -> `plan` -> merge -> approval in Slack -> `apply`.

If so, would be great to have that image here and at the very top of the post. Could really brings the whole thing together.
